Docs: File Library (#11950)
directus/directus: docs/app/file-library.md

# File Library

> The File Library Module aggregates all files within the Directus Project into one consolidated library. It is a
> full-featured Digital Asset Management (DAM) system for storing, organizing, browsing, and transforming your various
> files and assets.

![File Library](https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/file-library/file-library-20220305A/file-library-20220307A.webp)

[[toc]]

::: warning More Documents on Folder and File Management

This is a non-technical, no-code guide to the File Library Module. Please note there is documentation on programmatic
[Folder](/reference/system/folders/) and [File](/reference/files/) management via the API.

:::

## How it Works

::: tip Required Knowledge

Familiarity with the [Collections Page](/app/content-collections/) will be helpful but not necessary.

:::

The File Library acts as one big [Folder](#folders) to store all uploaded [Files](#files). Sub-folders can be created

> within the File Library to help Files stay organized. Folders and Files are stored as Collections, which means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within the File Library to help Files stay organized. Folders and Files information are stored in regular Collections, which means
```

## Files

When a file is clicked in the File Listing Page, the File Details Page appears. This is a custom form for viewing assets
and embeds, with core Fields included out-of-the-box (see below), and the ability for administrators to add additional
custom Fields. This page has the same features and functionality as the
[Item Details Page](/getting-started/glossary/#items).

![Files](https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/file-library/file-library-20220305A/files-20220305A.webp)

### Action Buttons

Notice the following Buttons in the Header:

- <span mi btn >check</span> – Saves any edits made to the file.
- <span mi btn sec>tune</span> – Please see the [Edit an Image](#edit-an-image) to learn more.
- <span mi btn sec>save_alt</span> – Downloads the file to your current device.
- <span mi btn sec>drive_file_move</span> – Moves selected file(s) to another folder.
- <span mi btn dngr>delete</span> – Permanently removes the file and its metadata. This action is permanent and cannot
  be undone.

::: tip Can't Delete Files Linked to Items

Directus will not allow you to delete a File until you remove it from any and all related Items.

> :::

Reviewer: Lets update this, as it's not technically true. You can configure the relational constraint of your file field to SET NULL or CASCADE when the file is deleted. That way, the referencing field will get updated on the fly when the image is deleted.

Author: Nice! Learn something new everyday

Author: This should be resolved.

> :::

Reviewer: Lets update this, as it's not technically true. You can configure the relational constraint of your file field to SET NULL or CASCADE when the file is deleted. That way, the referencing field will get updated on the fly when the image is deleted.

Author: This is a duplicate of the above comment.

# File Library

> The File Library Module aggregates all files within the Directus Project into one consolidated library. It is a
> full-featured Digital Asset Management (DAM) system for storing, organizing, browsing, and transforming your various
> files and assets.

> ![File Library](https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/file-library/file-library-20220305A/file-library-20220305A.webp)

Reviewer: Can we use a screenshot without a folder named `ok` ?

Author: lol yes we can boss!

Reviewer: ok!

3. Click **"Save"**.

## Delete a Folder

<video alt="Deleting a Folder" loop muted controls autoplay>
  <source src="https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/file-library/delete-a-folder-20220215A.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

1. From the **File Library**, right-click on the Folder you wish to delete and select **"Delete Folder"**.
2. Click **"Delete"**.

::: tip

When you delete a Folder, any nested Files and Folders will be moved one level up.

:::

## Extensibility Options

Directus Core is completely open-source, modular and extensible. Extensions allow you to expand or modify any part of
Directus to fit your needs. Here are some great resources to get started down that track.

- [Extensions > Introduction](/extensions/introduction/)
- [Extensions > Creating Extensions](/extensions/creating-extensions/)
- [Contributing > Introduction](/contributing/introduction/)
- [Contributing > Codebase Overview](/contributing/codebase-overview/)

::: tip Accelerated Development

Working on an enterprise project and looking to outsource or financially sponsor the development of a Shares extension?
Contact [our team](https://directus.io/contact/)

> :::

Reviewer: Lets remove this

Author: ok!
